Technical / editorial: Document the text-box-* properties (#37738)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/text-box/index.md

We apply a `text-box` value of `trim-end cap alphabetic` to the first one. The {{cssxref("text-box-edge")}} value of `cap alphabetic` specifies to trim the over edge leading to the top of the capital letters and the under edge leading flush with the text baseline. However, because the {{cssxref("text-box-trim")}} value is set to `trim-end`, only the under edge leading is trimmed.

We apply a `text-box` value of `trim-both ex alphabetic` to the second one. The {{cssxref("text-box-edge")}} value of `ex alphabetic` specifies to trim the over edge leading to the font's x-height (the top of the short lower-case letters) and the under edge leading flush with the text baseline. Because the {{cssxref("text-box-trim")}} value is set to `trim-both`, both the over _and_ under edge leading are trimmed.

```html hidden
<p class="one">This is .one</p>

<p class="two">This is .two</p>
```

```css hidden
html {
  font-family: sans-serif;
  height: 100%;
}

body {
  height: inherit;
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  justify-content: center;
  gap: 100px;
}

p {
  margin: 0;
  font-size: 6rem;
  font-weight: bold;
  border-top: 5px solid magenta;

>   border-bottom: 5px solid magenta;

Author: OK, fair call. Updated

}
```

```css
.one {
  text-box: trim-end cap alphabetic;
}

.two {
  text-box: trim-both ex alphabetic;

> }

Author: updated

---
title: text-box
slug: Web/CSS/text-box
page-type: css-shorthand-property
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: css.properties.text-box
---

{{CSSRef}}{{seecompattable}}

> The **`text-box`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) property is a shorthand that corresponds to the {{cssxref("text-box-trim")}} and {{cssxref("text-box-edge")}} properties, which together specify the amount of space to trim from the block-start edge and block-end edge of a text element's block container. This includes, but is not limited to, the text's [leading](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Leading).

Author: I've made these changes, but I've done it in a slightly different way, including the extra description in a "Description" section.

## Constituent properties

This property is a shorthand for the following CSS properties:

- {{cssxref("text-box-trim")}}
- {{cssxref("text-box-edge")}}

## Syntax

```css
/* Single keyword */
text-box: normal;

/* One text-box-edge keyword */
text-box: trim-start text;
text-box: trim-both text;

/* Two text-box-edge keywords */
text-box: trim-start cap alphabetic;
text-box: trim-both ex text;

/* Global values */
text-box: inherit;
text-box: initial;
text-box: revert;
text-box: revert-layer;
text-box: unset;
```

### Values

> The `text-box` value can be composed of a {{cssxref("text-box-trim")}} value followed by a {{cssxref("text-box-edge")}} value. See those pages for value descriptions.

Reviewer: Whichever property can come first, as the [syntax](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-inline-3/#text-box-shorthand) uses the `||` operator. The relevant [wpt tests are here](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/master/css/css-inline/text-box-trim/parsing/text-box-valid.html).

I suppose you have a default way to describe the `||` operator. Is that "followed by"?

Author: Nope, if they can be in either order, "followed by" is not accurate. I'm glad you flagged this. I've updated it to:

> The `text-box` value can be composed of a {{cssxref("text-box-trim")}} value and a {{cssxref("text-box-edge")}} value.

The `text-box` property can also take a keyword of `normal`, which is equivalent to `text-box: none auto;`

> If `text-box-trim` is omitted, it is set to `both`. If `text-box-edge` is omitted, it is set to `auto`.

Reviewer: Please replace `both` with `trim-both`.

Author: Good catch, thank you.

## Formal definition

{{cssinfo}}

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

### Basic `text-box` usage

In the following example we have two `<p>` elements with classes of `one` and `two`.

We apply a `text-box` value of `trim-end cap alphabetic` to the first one. The {{cssxref("text-box-edge")}} value of `cap alphabetic` specifies to trim the over edge to the top of the capital letters and the under edge flush with the text baseline. However, because the {{cssxref("text-box-trim")}} value is set to `trim-end`, only the under edge is trimmed.

> We apply a `text-box` value of `trim-both ex alphabetic` to the second one. The {{cssxref("text-box-edge")}} value of `ex alphabetic` specifies to trim the over edge to the font's x-height (the top of the short lower-case letters) and the under edge flush with the text baseline. Because the {{cssxref("text-box-trim")}} value is set to `trim-both`, both the over _and_ under edge are trimmed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We apply a `text-box` value of `trim-both ex alphabetic` to the second paragraph. The {{cssxref("text-box-edge")}} value of `ex alphabetic` specifies trimming the over edge to the font's x-height (the top edge of short lower-case letters) and the under edge flush with the text baseline. Because the {{cssxref("text-box-trim")}} value is set to `trim-both`, both the over _and_ under edge are trimmed.
```

Author: I applied this one, but made a couple of tweaks.
